1
فــاتورة
User Manual
Developer Portal Manual
Version 2
June 2022

-- 1 of 85 --

2
Contents
1. General Information
1.1 Introduction
1.1.1 Objectives
1.1.2 Scope
1.1.3 Intended Audience
1.1.4 Recommended Reading
2. Developer Portal Overview
2.1 Pre-requisites
2.2 Structure / Sitemap
2.3 User Journeys
2.3.1 Accessing the Developer Portal
2.3.2 Creating a Developer Portal Account
2.3.3 Accessing the Compliance and Enablement Toolbox SDK Page
2.3.4 Downloading the SDK
2.3.5 Using the SDK (outside of the Developer Portal)
2.3.6 Accessing the Compliance and Enablement Toolbox Portal Based Validator
05
05
05
06
07
07
08
08
09
10
11
12
14
16
17
17

-- 2 of 85 --

3
2.3.7 Using the Compliance and Enablement Toolbox Portal Based Validator
2.3.8 Accessing the Integration Sandbox Page
2.3.9 Accessing the API and associated Documentation (Swagger Files)
2.3.10 Step by step guide to make a successful call to APIs
2.3.11 API Summary
2.3.12 Accessing the Developer Portal Support Page
3. Change in Security Requirements
4 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
4.1 Business FAQs
4.1.1 Developer Portal Business FAQs
4.1.2 SDK Business FAQs
4.1.3 Compliance and Enablement Toolbox Portal Based Validator Business FAQs
4.1.4 Integration Sandbox Business FAQs
4.2 Technical FAQs
4.2.1 Developer Portal Technical FAQs
4.2.2 SDK Technical FAQs
4.2.3 Compliance and Enablement Toolbox Portal Based Validator Technical FAQs
4.2.4 Integration Sandbox Technical FAQs
5 Appendix
19
21
23
24
51
55
57
58
58
58
60
64
65
69
69
69
71
72
76

-- 3 of 85 --

4
5.1 Glossary
5.2 Developer Portal Security Information
5.3 Generate CSR
5.3.1 Initiate a CSR configuration file (Open SSL Config. File)
5.3.2 Generate public/private key pair
76
78
78
78
81

-- 4 of 85 --

5
The Developer Portal is a dedicated portal provided by ZATCA for the developers of E-invoicing Generation
Solutions (EGS). It contains two development tools aimed at supporting developers build compliant EGS
units which are:
● 	The Compliance and Enablement Toolbox Software Development Kit (SDK): an offline downloadable
tool which can be used to validate an XML based e-invoice, credit or debit note files in accordance
with the ZATCA published requirements, standards and guidelines. It also allows validation of the QR
codes as per the prescribed structure. Developers can integrate their EGS units with the SDK locally
(offline) or also test using a Command Line Interface (CLI).
● 	Integration Sandbox: a test ZATCA backend system which EGS units can integrate with to make API
calls to simulate and test the Onboarding process followed by the submission of test e-invoices, credit
and debit notes for Reporting and Clearance in accordance with the ZATCA published requirements,
standards and guidelines.
In addition to the above, the Developer Portal has a third tool aimed at intermediate or non-technical users
to validate an XML based e-invoice, credit or debit note files from the portal directly. This is referred to as
the Compliance and Enablement Toolbox Portal Based Validator.
Finally, the Developer Portal has a dedicated support page containing a list of Frequently Asked Questions
(FAQs) to help developers troubleshoot during development and testing of their EGS units as well as
provide guidance on E-invoicing requirements in general.
1.1.1 Objectives
The primary objective of the Developer Portal is to support the Developer community in building EGS units
that are compliant with ZATCA's XML implementation standards as well as the Security Features and
Implementation 	Standards.
1.1 Introduction
1. General Information

-- 5 of 85 --

6
● 	The objective of the SDK is to ensure that XML e-invoices, credit or debit notes being generated by the
EGS units are compliant
● 	The objective of the Web based validator is to allow less or non-technical users to be able to independently
validate the compliance of XML e-invoices, credit or debit notes and share the results with their developers.
● 	The objective of the Integration Sandbox is to test the EGS units / solutions / applications are able to
integrate with a test ZATCA backend system via APIs covering the following:
● 	Submit a test Certificate Signing Request (CSR) to obtain a test Compliance Cryptographic
Stamp Identifier (CCSID) and test Request ID
● 	Submit a test Request ID to obtain a test Production CSID
● 	Submit test Standard Documents using the test Clearance API (or using a variant of the test
Reporting API to mimic the process when Clearance is turned off)
● 	Submit Simplified Documents using the Reporting API
1.1.2 Scope
This user manual acts as a guide for Developers in order to help them access and use the Developer
Portal features and functionalities. It explains in detail the user journey including steps, requirements and
processes needed for accessing the Developer Portal. Moreover, it provides guidance for the relevant
technical aspects and methods to be used to solve common issues that might be faced by the Portal users.
This document covers the following functionalities that are of relevant to the Developer Portal:
● 	Accessing the Developer Portal
● 	Website address and browsers supported
● 	Main dashboard elements
● 	Registration for the Developer Portal
● 	Functionalities that require registration
● 	Authentication and verification process
● 	Log in to the Developer Portal
● 	Entering user credentials
● 	Password reset / Forget Password
● 	Successful log in

-- 6 of 85 --

7
● 	Accessing and downloading the Compliance and Enablement Toolbox SDK
● 	Understanding of the SDK and how to use it
● 	Downloading the SDK
● 	Accessing and using the Web Based Validator
● 	Understanding of and the use of the Web Based Validator
● 	Validating XMLs directly on the Web Based Validator
● 	Accessing documentation for the APIs
● 	Using the APIs to integrate with the test ZATCA backend system
● 	Test the integration calls for Onboarding, Renewal, Reporting, Clearance
● 	Accessing and using the Integration Sandbox APIs
● 	Accessing documentation for the APIs
● 	Using the APIs to integrate with the test ZATCA backend system
● 	Test the integration calls for Onboarding, Renewal, Reporting, Clearance
1.1.3 Intended Audience
This document is intended to be used by:
● 	Solution Developers
● 	Taxpayers
● 	Other users of relevance
1.1.4 Recommended Reading
Although not a pre-requisite for accessing and using the Developer Portal functionalities, it is strongly
advised that users go through the following documentation:
1. 	XML Implementation Standards (E-Invoice XML Implementation Standard)
2. 	Security Features and Implementation Standards (E-Invoice Security Features and Implementation
Standards)
3. 	Data Dictionary (E-Invoice Data Dictionary)
4. 	E-Invoicing Resolution (E-Invoicing Resolution)

-- 7 of 85 --

8
2. Developer Portal Overview
2.1 Pre-requisites
The Developer Portal itself is a web-based application and can be run from any modern browser such as
Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge or Apple Safari.
The SDK is a Java based JAR file that can run on all leading platforms including Windows, Linux and
Mac. The Java SDK (JAR) will run on JDK versions >=11 and <15, to comply with secp256k1 as per ZATCA
security regulations.
The Integration Sandbox APIs can be accessed from all leading platforms as those mentioned above.
REST APIs can be accessed from any Rest Client tools (Postman) for testing or using any coding languages
(java, .Net, PHP, Nodejs, etc.) to call the rest services using HTTPs Protocol.

-- 8 of 85 --

9
Developer Portal
Login Access Portal Based
Validator
Access Developer Portal
Support Page
Access SDK Page 	Access Integration Sandbox Page
● 	Download SDK
● 	SDK Support
● 	SDK Documentation
● 	SDK Version History
● 	Access API Documentation
(Swagger Files)
● 	Test APIs for Onboarding,
Renewal, Reporting and Clearance
Validate XMLs 	Access FAQs
Outside Developer Portal
Using the SDK 	Using the Integration Sandbox (APIs)
● 	Test compliance of XML
● 	Test compliance of QR
Code (Generation Phase)
● 	Test Compliance of QR
Code (Integration Phase)
● 	Test APIs to obtain Compliance
CSID and Production CSID (as part of
Onboarding process)
● 	Test APIs to obtain new Compliance
CSID and Production CSID (Test the
Renewal process)
● 	Test API to submit documents for
Reporting
● 	Test API to submit documents for
Clearance
2.2 Structure / Sitemap
The Developer Portal is comprised of the following:

-- 9 of 85 --

10
2.3 User Journeys
The recommended steps for Solution Developers are:
1. 	Read the XML Implementation Standards, Security Features Implementation Standards and Data
Dictionary
2. 	Access the Developer Portal
3. 	Create a Developer Portal Account
4. 	Login to the Developer Portal as a Registered User
5. 	Access the SDK Page
6. 	Read the SDK Support and Documentation
7. 	Download the SDK
8. 	Test XML compliance using the SDK via CLI / local integration
9. 	Access the Integration Sandbox Page
10. Go through the API Documentation on Swagger
11. Test the APIs through Swagger
12. Test the APIs via integration
13. Leveraging the Developer Portal Support page FAQs for troubleshooting
The recommended steps for Non-technical users are:
1. 	Access the Developer Portal
2. 	Accessing the Compliance and Enablement Toolbox Portal Page
3. 	Test XML compliance
4. 	Provide the error messages / responses (if any) to Solution Developers
5. 	Leveraging the Developer Portal Support page FAQs for troubleshooting

-- 10 of 85 --

11
2.3.1 Accessing the Developer Portal
The process for accessing the Developer Portal is as follows:
1. 	Access the Developer Portal through the following weblink (https://sandbox.zatca.gov.sa/).
2. 	The user is directed to the Developer Portal main dashboard / landing page
1. 	In this page the user can access the below sections without registration or login:
1. 	Developer Portal Support Page which includes the FAQs.
2. 	Web Based Validator for Non-Technical Users.
2. 	The following sections would require the user to create a Developer Portal account:
1. 	Compliance and Enablement Toolbox SDK Page.
2. 	Integration Sandbox Page.
Note: The User can chose to toggle the language between English and Arabic by using the icon on the
top right-hand side of the page.
Developer Portal main landing page

-- 11 of 85 --

12
2.3.2 Creating a Developer Portal Account
As mentioned above, a Developer Portal account is required for accessing the Compliance and Enable-
ment Toolbox SDK page and the Integration Sandbox page. You can ignore this step if you only wish to
access the Web Based Validator or the Developer Portal Support page.
Once the user is on the main dashboard of the Developer Portal, they can click on the "Sign up" button at
the top right-hand side as seen in the Figure below.
● 	Email ID
● 	First Name
● 	Last Name
● 	Company Name (optional field)
● 	Password
● 	Confirm Password
In the Sign Up page (as seen in the Figure below), the user will be prompted to create a new account by
providing the following details:
The email must be a valid email and the password must be at least 8 characters comprising of at least one
number, one letter each in lower and upper case, and one symbol.
After completing all the necessary fields, the user should click on the CAPTCHA verification followed by
the Sign up button.

-- 12 of 85 --

13
Login Page
After the user has signed up and created their account credentials, they can proceed to the Login page
where they will be prompted to:
● 	Fill in the User Name and Password (as created by the user).
● 	Click the CAPTCHA.
● 	In addition, the user can click "Forgot Password"
● 	In the case where the user does not have an account set up and requires one, the user can click on the
Sign Up option, in order to create a new account and proceed to the process described in this Section
2.3.2 of the User Manual for registration.
● 	After filling in all the information, the user should click on the Login button in order to proceed to the
main dashboard again where the user will now also be able to access the Compliance and Enable-
ment Toolbox SDK page and the Integration Sandbox page.
● 	A logged in user can logout at any time by clicking on the logout option on the header. The user can
also change the password at any time by clicking on the arrow next to the user profile icon in header.

-- 13 of 85 --

14
2.3.3 Accessing the Compliance and Enablement Toolbox SDK Page
The Compliance and Enablement Toolbox (SDK) which is an offline downloadable tool that can be used to
validate an XML based e-invoice, credit or debit note files in accordance with the ZATCA published XML
Implementation Standards. It also allows validation of the QR codes as per the prescribed structure. Developers
can integrate their EGS units with the SDK locally (offline) or also test using a CLI.
The process for accessing and downloading the Compliance and Enablement Toolbox SDK through the
Developer Portal is as follows:
● 	The user should be registered and logged into the Developer Portal successfully
● 	The user should click on "Compliance and Enablement Toolbox and SDK" to view the SDK functionalities.

-- 14 of 85 --

15
After the user has accessed the Compliance and Enablement Toolbox SDK Page, the user can:
● 	Access the SDK support, which includes aspects such as how to use the SDK and how it works, as well
as the minimum software requirements and the instructions of relevance to each Operating System/
environment.
● 	Access documentation such as the XML Implementation Standards (E-Invoice XML Implementation
Standard), Security Features and Implementation Standards (E-Invoice Security Features and
Implementation Standards) & Data Dictionary (E-Invoice Data Dictionary)
● 	Download the SDK after accepting the terms and conditions.
● 	View the version history which contains earlier releases of the SDK.
Accessing the Compliance and Enablement Toolbox (SDK)

-- 15 of 85 --

16
2.3.4 Downloading the SDK
In order to download the SDK, the process is as follows:
● 	The user clicks on "Download SDK"
● 	The user has to click on "I accept the above terms and conditions"
● 	As the above is clicked, the "Download SDK" button will be activated and become available for the user
to click on
Accessing the E-Invoicing specification documents
downloading the SDK

-- 16 of 85 --

17
2.3.5 Using the SDK (outside of the Developer Portal)
Please refer to the ZATCA E-Invoice Java SDK (CLI) Manual on the below link by downloading the SDK
and then navigate to readme folder.
https://zatca.gov.sa/ar/E-Invoicing/SystemsDevelopers/ComplianceEnablementToolbox/Pages/Down-
loadSDK.aspx.
2.3.6 Accessing the Web Based Validator for Non-Technical Users
The user can test - using a web portal - the compliance of the XMLs of standard e-invoices, credit or debit notes
generated so that they can know if they are in line with the ZATCA e-invoicing specifications and regulations
or so that they can be alerted to any errors which are causing non-compliance with the ZATCA specifications
and regulations. It is aimed at intermediate or non-technical users to validate XML based e-invoices, credit
or debit note files from the portal directly, i.e. without the need to download the SDK or possess the technical
know-how to run it.
This section details the process of accessing the "Web Based Validator for Non-Technical Users" in order to
test the compliance of the e-invoice, credit and debit note XMLs. Users can access the "Web Based Validator
for Non-Technical Users" Page through the Developer Portal (no prior registration or login is required). On this
page, users can view information related to what the Web Based Validator aims to achieve and the user can
access this and begin uploading the XMLs that they would want to test and validate.
The process for accessing the "Web Based Validator for Non-Technical Users" page is as follows:
● 	The User accesses the "Web Based Validator for Non-Technical Users" on the Developer Portal (no prior
registration or log in required).

-- 17 of 85 --

18
● 	On the "Web Based Validator for Non-Technical Users", users can view information related to an
explanation of the Web Based Validator and what it aims to do
● 	In addition, users can click on "Access the Web Based Validator for taxpayers without a development
environment" in order to begin testing and validating their XMLs.
Accessing the web based validator
Web based validator Page
● 	Once users have chosen to "Access the Web Based Validator for taxpayers without a development
environment", a disclaimer is shown detailing that:

-- 18 of 85 --

19
2.3.7 Using the Web Based Validator for Non-Technical Users
An XML file can be validated according to its structure (schema), fields, or ZATCA requirements (i.e. The VAT
registration number must be 15 numeric digits). The way this works is that the user submits an XML and the
portal will read it, analyze it, and return the status of the validation.
Note that the Web Based Validator can be used to validate up to 5 XMLs and if more than 1 XML is provided, the
validator also checks for the sequence in terms of Previous Invoice (Document) Hash. Note that for a single
XML the Previous Document Hash check is always considered as valid or True.
Web based validator Disclaimer
The portal validation page is a standalone application and compliance does not necessarily imply the
e-invoices, credit or debit notes have been accepted by ZATCA. All Taxpayer E-invoicing solution unit will
need to pass the testing requirements as part of Registration/Taxpayer Onboarding prior to submitting
e-invoices, credit or debit notes to ZATCA.
● 	The User has to acknowledge the disclaimer in order to proceed to test their XML files.

-- 19 of 85 --

20
The process for validating XMLs from the Web Based Validator for Non-Technical Users page is as follows:
Click on “Upload XML file” and choose a file, then click “Validate."
If the XML is compliant, you will receive a “Valid”: true message.
Uploading an XML file on the web based validator
Web based validator - XML validation complete and no errors found

-- 20 of 85 --

21
If not compliant, the following message is shown.
The non-technical user is expected to share the validation outcomes with the Solution Developer to take
necessary action.
2.3.8 Accessing the Integration Sandbox Page
The Integration Sandbox as covered in this user manual comprises of two components - the Sandbox specific
front-end web pages (which is part of the Developer Portal and access to which requires a Developer Portal
registered user account) and an API based Sandbox backend to integrate with.
A registered and logged in user can access the Integration Sandbox page from the main dashboard while a
non-registered and non-logged in user is taken to the login screen. Once on the Integration Sandbox page
the user is given a high level summary of the current version release of the Sandbox as well as links to any
previous releases.
The ZATCA e-invoicing integration Sandbox is meant to be used for testing purposes only. Any inputs
submitted on the Sandbox are not considered as acknowledged, approved or accepted by ZATCA. Taxpayers
will be required to login using SSO credentials for the Taxation portal (ERAD) prior to officially be able to submit
official documents. Test CSIDs provided by the Sandbox cannot be used in the Core E-invoicing Solution.
Web based validator - XML complete and errors found

-- 21 of 85 --

22
Developers must also take into account that documents or requests submitted on the Core E-invoicing Solution
will be subjected to additional validations such as security features, prohibited functionalities, additional
business rule validations and/or referential checks based such as validating Seller/Buyer information entered
in the documents, validations based on previously submitted documents.
API Integration sandbox landing page
On the left navigation bar of the page the user is able to access the links to the API documentation which
are maintained as Swagger files (each API call is described in section 2.3.10 below along with the possible
outcomes).

-- 22 of 85 --

23
2.3.9 Accessing the API and associated Documentation (Swagger Files)
Access to the Swagger files is provided from the Integration Sandbox page. API documentation is provided
covering all the API calls that can be tested on the Sandbox such as:
● 	Test request for Compliance CSID as part of a new onboarding (requires a signed test CSR to be submitted
- details provided in the Swagger files)
● 	Test request for Production CSID as part of a new onboarding (requires a test Compliance CSID to be
submitted)
Note: The Core E-invoicing Solution will require specific compliance checks to be completed in between
the Compliance CSID and Production CSID requests and the latter will return an invalid response until these
compliance checks are completed. This invalid response can be tested in the Sandbox by providing a specific
input which is covered in the Swagger files below.
● 	Test request for a new Production CSID as part of renewal (requires a test Compliance CSID to be sub-
mitted)
● 	Test submission of documents for Clearance (requires a test Production CSID)
● 	Test submission of documents for Reporting (requires a test Production CSID)
Although the Sandbox uses test CSIDs, it is important to note that the VAT Registration number used to obtain
the test CSID must match with the VAT Registration number in the Renewal CSR and/or e-invoices, credit
notes, debit notes and QR codes submitted in all subsequent calls made using that specific test CSID. In other
words for every VAT Registration Number that is used in the Sandbox integration, a separate CSID will have
to be requested. Of course the VAT Registration Numbers can be dummy inputs.
● 	Please refer to the API Documentation through the following LINK.
Note: Please make sure to log-in in order to view the API documentation

-- 23 of 85 --

24
2.3.10 Step by step guide to make a successful call to APIs
1. 	For Reporting and Clearance (testing the submission of E-invoices, credit and debit notes)
● 	The users' E-Invoice Generation Solution (EGS) needs to generate compliant XML documents. For
more details on generating compliant XML documents please refer to the XML Implementation
Standards and the Data Dictionary (E-Invoice specifications (zatca.gov.sa). It is also recommend to
test the compliance using the Compliance and Enablement Toolbox SDK (Download SDK (zatca.
gov.sa) or Portal based validator for non-technical users (Compliance and Enablement Toolbox
portal).
● 	For Simplified documents (and optionally for Standard documents), the EGS also needs to generate
compliant QR codes. For more details on generating compliant QR codes please refer to the
Security Features and Implementation Standards (E-Invoice Security Features and Implementation
Standards).

-- 24 of 85 --

25
● 	Note that EGS must obtain a test Cryptographic Stamp Identifier (CSID) first, by using the test
integration calls for Onboarding or Renewal.
2. 	For Cryptographic Stamp Identifier (testing the Onboarding and Renewal processes).
● 	The users' EGS needs to generate a compliant CSR to obtain a test CSID. For more details on
generating a compliant CSR and CSID specifications please refer to (E-Invoice Security Features and
Implementation Standards).
● 	Note that EGS must obtain a test Cryptographic Stamp Identifier (CSID) first, by using the test
integration calls for Onboarding, in order to test the integration call for Renewal which requires a test
CSID to be included in the request.
2.3.10.1 Compliance CSID
● 	Step 1: Navigate to Developer Portal link
● 	Step 2: Login with correct credentials
● 	Step 3: Navigate to API Integration Sandbox

-- 25 of 85 --

26
● 	Step 4: Click on API documentation guides
● 	Step 5: Click on Compliance CSID API

-- 26 of 85 --

27
● 	Step 6: Click on try it out
● 	Step 7: Write valid OTP and CSR
● 	Step 8: Click on Execute

-- 27 of 85 --

28
● 	Result (200)
2.3.10.2 Compliance Invoice API
● 	Step 1: Navigate to Developer Portal link
● 	Step 2: Login with correct credentials
● 	Step 3: Navigate to API Integration Sandbox

-- 28 of 85 --

29
● 	Step 4: Click on API documentation guide
● 	Step 5: Click on Compliance Invoice API

-- 29 of 85 --

30
● 	Step 6: Click on Try it out button
● 	Step 7: Fill the Authentication Certificate (Compliance CSID)

-- 30 of 85 --

31
● 	Step 8: Add Encoded invoice and invoice hash
● 	Step 9: Click on Execute
● 	Result (200)

-- 31 of 85 --

32
2.3.10.3 Production CSID (Onboarding) API
● 	Step 1: Navigate to Developer Portal link
● 	Step 2: Login with correct credentials
● 	Step 3: Navigate to API Integration Sandbox
● 	Step 4: Click on API documentation guide

-- 32 of 85 --

33
● 	Step 5: Click on production CSID (Onboarding) API button
● 	Step 6: Click on Try it now button

-- 33 of 85 --

34
● 	Step 7: Add the Current CSID to Current CCSID field
● 	Step 8: Add correct compliance request ID in the request body
● 	Step 9: Click on Execute button

-- 34 of 85 --

35
● 	Result (200)

-- 35 of 85 --

36
2.3.10.4 Production CSID (Renewal) API
● 	Step 1: Navigate to Developer Portal link
● 	Step 2: Login with correct credentials
● 	Step 3: Navigate to API Integration Sandbox
● 	Step 4: Click on API documentation guide

-- 36 of 85 --

37
● 	Step 5: Click on Production CSID (Renewal) API button
● 	Step 6: Click on Try it now

-- 37 of 85 --

38
● 	Step 7: Add correct OTP and current CSID

-- 38 of 85 --

39
● 	Step 8: Add the correct CSR in the request body
● 	Step 9: Click on Execute button
● 	Result (200)

-- 39 of 85 --

40
2.3.10.5 REPORTING
● 	Step 1: Open CMD and Generate simplified invoice
● 	Step 2: Validate simplified xml

-- 40 of 85 --

41
● 	Step 3: Generate hash
● 	Step 4: Open Developer Portal and choose integration sandbox

-- 41 of 85 --

42
● 	Step 5: Choose Reporting
● 	Step 6: Try it out

-- 42 of 85 --

43
● 	Step 7: Write (invoice hash, invoice)
● 	Step 8: Replace the invoice hash in xml and encode the xml

-- 43 of 85 --

44
● 	Step 9: Execute

-- 44 of 85 --

45
● 	Result (200)
● 	Result (400)

-- 45 of 85 --

46
2.3.10.6 CLEARANCE
● 	Step 1: Open CMD and Generate standard invoice
● 	Step 2: Validate standard xml
● 	Step 3: Generate hash

-- 46 of 85 --

47
● 	Step 4: Open Developer Portal and choose integration sandbox
● 	Step 5: Choose Clearance

-- 47 of 85 --

48
● 	Step 6: Try it now
● 	Step 7: Write (invoice hash, invoice)

-- 48 of 85 --

49
● 	Step 8: Replace the invoice hash in xml and encode the xml

-- 49 of 85 --

50
● 	Step 9: Execute
● 	Result (200)

-- 50 of 85 --

51
● 	Result (400)
2.3.11 API Summary
Table 1
The following table gives a more detailed summary of the differences between the Integration Sandbox
releases in terms of the APIs as well associated components. The current release also indicates the new
additions/changes made in comparison to the previous release.
Function-
ality Description
Release 1 (No-
vember
2021)
Release 1.5 (Feb-
ruary
2022)
Release 2 (Current -
April 2022)
APIs
The list of APIs that are
covered in each release
including
references to the
functionalities they are
part of
Invoices APIs:
● 	Reporting API
● 	Clearance API
Onboarding APIs:
● 	CSID API (for
● 	Onboarding)
● 	CSID API (for
● 	Renewal)
Invoices APIs:
● 	Reporting API
● 	Clearance API
Onboarding APIs:
● 	Compliance CSID
API
● 	Production CSID API
● 	(for Onboarding)
● 	Production CSID API
(for Renewal)
● 	Compliance Checks
APIs (for Onboard-
ing / Renewal)
● 	Invoices API
Invoices APIs:
● 	Reporting API (configured to
Clearance enabled)
● 	Clearance API (configured to
Clearance enabled)
● 	Reporting API (configured to
Clearance disabled)
● 	NEW
● 	Clearance API (configured to
Clearance disabled) -
● 	NEW
Onboarding APIs:
● 	Compliance CSID API
● 	Production CSID API (for On-
boarding)
● 	Production CSID API (for Re-
newal)
● 	Compliance Checks APIs (for
Onboarding / Renewal)
● 	Invoices API
● 	Invoices API (Clearance dis-
abled) -- NEW

-- 51 of 85 --

52
Validation
Engine
(For Invoices)
The treatment of
validations and
exceptions as part
of the Reporting
and Clearance
process.
Exceptions here
refer to warnings
which are similar to
errors but do not
cause the
submitted
invoices/documents to
be rejected but are still
indicated in
the response so
that they can be
corrected in future
submissions.
● 	As per original
(published) data
dictionary, XML
Implementation
Standards and
Security Features
and Implementation
Standards
● 	No exceptions
(Invoices are
either accepted or
rejected)
● 	Not possible to test
for Sandbox behav-
ior When Clearance
is disabled
● 	As per updated data
dictionary, XML
Implementation
Standards and
Security Features
and Implementation
Standards (includ-
ing updates to CSR
and CSID standards)
● 	Seller Address field
will be accepted
with warning for
Taxpayer devices /
solution units to dif-
ferentiate between
a warning and an
error response
● 	Not possible to test
for Sandbox behav-
ior when Clearance
is disabled
● 	As per updated data dictionary,
XML Implementation Stan-
dards and Security Features
and Implementation Standards
(including updates to CSR and
CSID standards)
● 	Seller Address field will be
accepted with warning for Tax-
payer devices / solution units to
differentiate Between a warning
and an error response
● 	Two variants of the Reporting
and Clearance APIs which are
configured with Clearance
disabled is being provided -
● 	NEW
● 	Note: In the Core Einvoicing
Solution there will only be one
API each for Reporting and
Clearance which at any point of
time willeither be configured
to Clearance being enabled or
disabled
CSR and CSID
(For
Onboarding)
The formats and fields
for the Certificate Signing
Request (CSR) and the
resultant Cryptographic
Stamp Identifier (CSID)
that is used as part of the
Onboarding process.
As per the original (pub-
lished) Security Features
and Implementation
Standards
As per the updated Secu-
rity Features and Imple-
mentation Standards
As per the updated Security Features
and Implementation Standards
Swagger
Files (API
Specifications)
The API documentation
associated with the
Swagger files.
● 	Covers the APIs
mentioned above
● 	No provisions for
Exceptions or turn-
ing off Clearance
● 	Covers the APIs
mentioned
● 	Provision for 1
Exception (Non-
compliance in the
Seller’s Address
field is accepted as
a warning)
● 	No provisions for
turning off Clear-
ance
● 	Covers the two
separate APIs for
Compliance and
Production CSIDs
● 	Covers the Reporting and Clear-
ance APIs above with provision
for 1 Exception
● 	Covers the Reporting and
Clearance APIs above with pro-
vision for turning off Clearance
(through two additional variants
of the Reporting and Clearance
APIs) -
● 	NEW
● 	Covers the two separate APIs
for Compliance and Production
CSIDs

-- 52 of 85 --

53
Table 2
The following table provides a summary description of the APIs including the key outputs and inputs/pre-
requisites for each API.
API Name 	Description 	Output 	Pre-requisites
Reporting API
This API should be used to test submitting
Simplified e-invoices, credit or debit note to
the ZATCA backend system as part of the
Reporting process
When Clearance is disabled, this API can
also be used to test submitting Standard
e-invoices, credit or debit notes for Report-
ing
Note: In the Integration Sandbox there will
be two variants of the Reporting API, one
which is configured to Clearance being
enabled (i.e. it will not accept Standard
documents) and one which is configured
to Clearance being disabled (i.e. it will also
accept Standard documents to be submitted
for Reporting)
● 	If no errors or warnings:
Accepted
● 	If error in Seller Address:
Accepted with warning
message
● 	If errors other than Seller
Address: Rejected with
error messages
● 	A test Production CSID obtained
from API #5 or #6 below
● 	Simplified invoice, credit or debit
note in XML format
● 	Standard invoice, credit or debit
note in XML format when Clear-
ance is disabled
Clearance API
This API should be used to test submitting
test Standard e-invoices, credit or debit note
to the ZATCA backend system as part of the
Clearance process
When Clearance is disabled, this API will
return a 303 Response indicating that the
Reporting API be used to submit Standard
documents as well
Note: In the Integration Sandbox there will
be two variants of the Clearance API, one
which is configured to Clearance being en-
abled (i.e. it will validate and clear Standard
documents) and one which is configured to
Clearance being disabled (i.e. it will return
response 303 stating that Clearance is
currently disabled and the Reporting API
must be used to submit Standard documents
as well)
● 	If no errors or warnings:
Accepted and document
is returned with test ZAT-
CA stamp and QR code
● 	If error in Seller Address:
Accepted with warning
message and document
is returned with test ZAT-
CA stamp and QR code
● 	If errors other than Seller
Address: Rejected with
error messages
● 	Response 303 when
Clearance is disabled
asking the Reporting
API to be used to submit
Standard documents
● 	A test Production CSID obtained
from API #5 or #6 below
● 	Standard invoice, credit or debit
note in XML format

-- 53 of 85 --

54
Compliance
CSID API
This API should be used to test submitting
test CSRs (Certificate Signing Requests) to
the ZATCA backend system as part of the
Onboarding and renewal process
● 	Valid request: Test Com-
pliance CSID and a test
Request ID are obtained
● 	Invalid request: Error
message(s)
● 	Public Private Key pair
● 	Signed CSR
Production
CSID API (for
Onboarding)
This API will be used to submit a test Re-
quest ID to a test ZATCA backend system as
part of the Onboarding process
● 	Valid request: Test Pro-
duction CSID is obtained
● 	Invalid request: Error
message(s)
● 	A test Compliance CSID obtained
from APIs #3 above
● 	A test (dummy) request ID
Production
CSID API (for
Renewal)
This API will be used to submit a test Re-
quest ID to a test ZATCA backend system as
part of the Onboarding process
● 	Valid request: Test Pro-
duction CSID is obtained
● 	Invalid request: Error
message(s)
● 	A test Compliance CSID obtained
from APIs #3 above
● 	A test (dummy) request ID
Compliance
Checks APIs
(for Onboard-
ing / Renewal)
These APIs should be used to test the
compliance check for the device / solution
unit (EGS) as part of the Onboarding and/or
Renewal processes
The compliance checks include checking
compliance of Standard and/or Simplified
documents when Clearance is enabled
(Compliance Invoice API) or when Clear-
ance is disabled (Compliance Invoice
Clearance Disabled API);
● 	All Compliance checks
passed
● 	One or more compliance
checks failed with error
messages
● 	A test Compliance CSID obtained
from APIs #3 above
● 	Standard and/or Simplified invoic-
es, credit or debit notes in XML
format

-- 54 of 85 --

55
2.3.12 Accessing the Developer Portal Support Page
The Developer Portal Support Page can be accessed from the main dashboard of the Developer Portal and
does not require any prior registration / log in. Through this page, the user can view the different types of
support available which includes the Toolbox and Sandbox documentation. In addition, the user can view the
FAQ section to find readily available answers to common inquiries they may have on the Developer Portal
tools and functionalities as well as more specific questions on testing the compliance of their XMLs. Users can
also find the support contact information that they can access should they require any support. This includes
phone number / hotline, international phone number and the email address. Users could also provide any
suggestions or complaints they may have.
The user can access the Developer Portal Support Page from the main Developer Portal page.
The following categories are available to users:
● 	General support
● 	SDK support
● 	Integration Sandbox support
● 	Compliance and Enablement Toolbox support

-- 55 of 85 --

56
A search bar is also readily available for users to search and obtain the relevant information easily. The user
can view common enquiries in the FAQ page. The user can see a contact section at the bottom of the support
page in case of experiencing any issues and in the event that the user would want to receive the support of the
contact center.

-- 56 of 85 --

57
3. Change in Security Requirements
ZATCA has updated its E-invoicing security solution from a Certificate Based Header to Oauth2 Basic
Authentication and below are the key changes between these two solutions:
Basic Authentication Format:
● 	Authorization: Basic {Base64 Encoded String}
● 	{Base64 Encoded String} = A script containing the CSID, a Colon and the Secret encoded with Base64
(CSID:Secret)
Certificate Based Authentication 	Basic Authentication
Description
The current solution includes using the CSID
in as a header value in authentication-certif-
icate
The updated solution will include a Basic Authenti-
cation header with the CSID as the Username and a
Secret Value as the Password. Secret value will be
issue with the CSID. An additional accept-version:
v2 header must be added to V2 API calls.
Onboarding
CSID is issued for the compliance checks and
is included in the authentication-certificate
header for all compliance calls
CSID and Secret are issued for the compliance
checks, CSID should be used as the user and the
Secret as the password
E-invoicing
Production CSID is issued and all eInvoicing
calls (reporting and clearance) include the
authentication-certificate header
Production CSID and Secret issued and all eInvoic-
ing calls (reporting and clearance) should include
the Basic Authentication header with CSID as the
user and Secret as the password. An additional
accept-version: v2 header must be added to V2 API
calls

-- 57 of 85 --

58
4.1.1 Developer Portal Business FAQs
4.1 Business FAQs
4. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
# 	Question 	Answer
1 	What is the Developer Portal?
The Developer Portal is a dedicated Portal provided by ZATCA
to the e-invoice generation solution developers and the
developers community. It provides tailored information in line
with e-invoicing requirements and in particular it provides
access to a Software Development Kit (SDK) and a Portal-
based validator which allows for checking the compliance
of specific XML electronic invoices with the e-invoicing
requirements. It also provides access to ZATCA's Integration
Sandbox.
2
What are the main tools or
functionalities provided by the
Developer Portal?
Through the Developer Portal, users can access:
● 	A Support page, which includes guidance and support
information on the Developer Portal functionalities
● 	The SDK page, used for testing the compliance of XML files
with the e-invoicing requirements
● 	The Portal-based validator page, which enables non-
technical users to check the compliance of XML files by
uploading them to the Portal
● 	The Integration Sandbox, which allows developers to test the
integration of their systems with a Sandbox environment

-- 58 of 85 --

59
# 	Question 	Answer
3 What are the requirements for
using the Developer Portal?
The Developer Portal is publicly available to everyone.
The users can access the Compliance and Enablement
Toolbox (SDK and Web-based Validator) and Support
pages without the need for prior registration. However,
users who desire to access the SDK and the Integration
Sandbox must register by providing the details requested
on the page.
4 Who are the intended users to
register for the Developer Portal?
Developers of e-invoice solutions or developers
representing taxpayers' in-house teams or non-technical
users representing taxpayers (such as tax or accounts
teams) who would like to validate the compliance of
specific document files (e.g. XML files) with the e-invoicing
requirements.

-- 59 of 85 --

60
4.1.2 SDK Business FAQs
# 	Question 	Answer
1 What is the Compliance and
Enablement Toolbox SDK?
The SDK is an offline downloadable tool which can be used
to validate the XMLs files in accordance with the E-Invoicing
requirements. It also allows validation of the QR codes as
per a prescribed structure.
2 	Where can I find the SDK?
The SDK can be found by navigating to the "Systems Developers"
page on the ZATCA website, followed by the "Compliance and
Enablement Toolbox" page. Through the "Compliance and
Enablement Toolbox" page, users can download the SDK after
accepting the disclaimer.
3 	Do I have to use the SDK?
It is not mandatory for Taxpayers to use the SDK. However,
ZATCA encourages developers to use the SDK to ensure
compliance with the E-Invoicing requirements for the QR
Code (required from 4 December, 2021) and XML (required
starting from 1 January, 2023 onwards).
Developers should also use the SDK for offline testing to reduce
load on the Integration Sandbox.
4
Once the XML validation is
successful, is it deemed to be
accepted by ZATCA?
The purpose of the SDK is to assist the developers to check
if the QR Code structure and XML file meets the E-Invoicing
requirements and to return specific error messages for
correction. Successful validation of XMLs using the SDK should
not be deemed as any form of acceptance or approval by
ZATCA.

-- 60 of 85 --

61
5
What are the QR code fields
that will be validated in the
Generation phase and which
are required for the 4th of
December 2021?
The users will be able to validate the following fields:
1. 	Seller's Name.
2. 	VAT registration number of the seller.
3. 	Timestamp of the electronic invoice or credit/debit note
(date and time).
4. 	Electronic invoice or credit/debit note total (with VAT).
5. 	VAT total.
Additional fields from the specification and otherwise may
be included, but will be disregarded by ZATCA for the 4th of
December requirements.
6
What are the QR code fields that
will be validated in the Integration
phase starting from 1 January
2023 onwards?
The users will be able to validate the following fields:
1. 	Seller's Name.
2. 	VAT registration number of the seller.
3. 	Timestamp of the electronic invoice or credit/debit note
(date and time).
4. 	Electronic invoice or credit/debit note total (with VAT).
5. 	VAT amount.
6. 	Hash of XML electronic invoice or credit/debit note.
7. 	Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA)
signature.
8. 	ECDSA public key: The public key BLOB format contains
only the public portion of an ECDSA key used to generate
the Cryptographic Stamp. Length of the public key BLOB
for a 256-bit key is 64 bytes (72 bytes including magic
number and field length information on some systems).

-- 61 of 85 --

62
6 	Continue
9. 	For Simplified Tax Invoices and their associated notes,
the ECDSA signature of the cryptographic stamp’s public
key by ZATCA’s technical Certificate Authority (CA) is
required.
● 	An ECDSA signature is encoded according to
IEEE 	P1363. 	This 	signature 	format 	encodes
the (r, s) tuple as the concatenation of the big-
endian representation of r and the big-endian
representation of s.
● 	Each of these values is encoded using the number
of bytes required to encode the maximum integer
value in the key's mathematical field.
● 	For example, an ECDSA signature from 256-bit
elliptic curves (like secp256k1) encodes each of r
and s as 32 bytes, and produces a signature output
of 64 bytes.
Please find below an example:
public static byte[] extractR(String digitalSignature) throws
Exception {
MessageDigest digest = MessageDigest.
getInstance("SHA-256");
byte[] hash =
digest.digest(Base64.getDecoder().
decode(digitalSignature.getBytes(StandardCharsets.
UTF_8)));
return Arrays.copyOfRange(hash, 0, 32);
}
/**
* Extract S Component
*
* @return
* @throws Exception
*/

-- 62 of 85 --

63
6 	Continue
public static byte[] extractS(String digitalSignature) throws
Exception {
MessageDigest digest = MessageDigest.
getInstance("SHA-256");
byte[] hash =
digest.digest(Base64.getDecoder().
decode(digitalSignature.getBytes(StandardCharsets.
UTF_8)));
return Arrays.copyOfRange(hash, 32, 64);

-- 63 of 85 --

64
4.1.3 Web Based Validator Business FAQs
# 	Question 	Answer
1
What is the Web Based
Validator for Non-Technical
Users?
The Web-based validator can be accessed by anyone
from the Developer Portal. It is mainly built to enable
non-technical users, (such as some tax and accounting
teams,) to test and validate XMLs as per e-invoicing
requirements.
2 Who is eligible to use the Web
Based Validator?
The intended users of the Web Based Validator are
the non-technical users such as tax teams or accounts
teams for taxpayers. Anyone can accesses the
Developer Portal (publicly available) to use the Web
Based Validator.
3 	What if XML has error(s)?
In case an XML has error(s), specific error messages
will be displayed. XMLs can be validated either via
the Portal-based validator or the SDK again after the
error(s) are fixed.
4
Is 	it 	mandatory 	to 	use 	the
Compliance 	and 	Enablement
Toolbox SDK or Web Based
Validator?
It is not mandatory for Taxpayers to use the SDK or the
Web Based Validator. However, ZATCA encourages
the technical and non-technical users (such as tax
teams or accounts teams) to use the SDK and Web
Based Validator to ensure compliance with e-invoicing
requirements.

-- 64 of 85 --

65
4.1.4 Integration Sandbox Business FAQs
# 	Question 	Answer
1 What is the Integration
Sandbox?
The Integration Sandbox (ISB) is a test platform developed
by ZATCA to simulate some of the core e-invoicing platform
(Fatoora) functionalities that will be available in the production
system. Its primary objective is to allow Solution Developers
to build compliant E-invoice Generation Solutions that can
submit requests to the ISB and obtain relevant responses to
indicate if their integration calls have been successful or if they
have any errors.
2
What is the difference
between the Compliance and
Enablement Toolbox and the
Integration Sandbox?
The Compliance and Enablement Toolbox (CET)
comprises of:
1. 	1. An offline SDK tool to validate QR Code and XMLs; and
2. 	2. A Portal-based Validator for non-technical users
(such as tax or accounts teams) to validate XMLs.
The Integration Sandbox allows testing integration of
taxpayer's E-invoicing solutions with a sandbox environment
using test APIs to send requests and documents in a similar
manner to how it would be done on the core e-invoicing
platform. This sandbox will perform validations that are part
of the SDK and some additional checks that cannot be done
offline or are specific to API requests. The SDK requires
XML files / QR code strings as inputs while the Integration
Sandbox requires an API request as input.

-- 65 of 85 --

66
3
If my invoices are compliant
as 	per 	the 	Compliance 	and
Enablement 	Toolbox, 	will
they also pass the Integration
Sandbox?
XMLs validated by the Toolbox are expected to receive
successful responses on the Integration Sandbox also
unless there are issues with the API request itself.
However, the Sandbox can also run some additional
validations.
4 Will the Integration Sandbox be
available to Taxpayers only?
The intended users of the Integration Sandbox are e-invoicing
solution developers. Developers can register by providing
the requested information and access the API documentation
on the Developer Portal. VAT Registration details are not a
pre-requisite to register and access the Integration Sandbox.
5
Does 	passing 	the 	Integration
Sandbox 	mean 	the 	E-invoice
Generation Solution can be used
by a Taxpayer to submit invoices
to ZATCA?
No. Taxpayers who are required to integrate with ZATCA
will have to undergo an Onboarding and Compliance
process to be able to submit electronic documents to ZATCA
starting from 1 January 2023 onwards. E-invoice Generation
Solutions which undergo adequate testing on the Sandbox
will have a higher probability of completing that onboarding
and compliance process smoothly.
6
Can 	multiple 	invoices 	be
submitted 	to 	the 	Integration
Sandbox?
Yes. However, each invoice, credit or debit note should be
part of a separate API call.
7
Do invoices need to be submitted
in sequence to the Integration
Sandbox?
The Integration Sandbox does not mandate that the invoices
should be submitted in sequence.
8
Does ZATCA store the invoices
submitted 	to 	the 	Integration
Sandbox?
No.

-- 66 of 85 --

67
9
Does the Integration Sandbox
require actual taxpayer details
on the XML files?
No, dummy information can be provided as long as they
meet the syntax and content specifications and the XML
implementation standards and validation rules.
10
If an invoice has been cleared by
the Integration Sandbox, can it be
issued to a buyer?
No. The Integration Sandbox is not intended to validate actual
invoices and is for testing purposes only. The successful
validation of an XML using the Integration Sandbox should not
be deemed as any kind of acceptance or approval by ZATCA.
11
Can I use the same username and
password that I used to access
the Compliance and Enablement
Toolbox SDK on the Developer
Portal to log into the Integration
Sandbox?
Yes, the registration and login process is common for both
the Compliance and Enablement Toolbox SDK and the
Integration Sandbox.
12 What is a Cryptographic Stamp
Identifier (CSID)?
The CSID is technically a cryptographic certificate, which
is a credential that allows for authenticated signing and
encryption of communication. The certificate is also known
as a public key certificate or an identity certificate. It is an
electronic document used as proof of ownership of a public
key.
The CSID is used to uniquely identify an Invoice Generation
Solution Unit in possession of a taxpayer for the purpose of
stamping (technically cryptographically signing) Simplified
Invoices and for accessing the Reporting and Clearance APIs
using TLS authentication.

-- 67 of 85 --

68
13
What is the difference between
a Compliance and Production
CSID?
A Compliance CSID is an intermediate CSID provided in
response to the CSR submission from an EGS or other solution.
In the Core E-invoicing Solution, the Compliance CSID is
required to complete some compliance checks before the EGS
or other solution is able the Production CSID which is required
for authenticating the EGS or other solution to ZATCA. In the
Sandbox, the compliance checks are not required, and the
purpose is to therefore to test the integration calls of obtaining
the Compliance and Production CSIDs.
14 Can I use the same CSID for any
invoice submission?
Yes. As long as the VAT Registration number on the CSID
matches the VAT Registration Number on the documents. In
other words, for every VAT Registration Number being tested
across any API call, a CSID with the same VAT Registration
Number is required. Note that the VAT Registration number can
be any dummy number that meets the syntax specifications
(15 digits, starting with 3 and ending with 3).
Only a test Production CSID can be used for submitting
invoices, credit or debit notes as well as QR codes.
15 What is the difference between
an error and warning?
Errors are associated with invalid invoices, credit or debit
notes causing the rejection of such submissions. Warnings are
associated with accepted documents which are still not fully
compliant with the specifications and standards. Currently the
only warning case is an error with the Seller Address and is
meant for EGS units to be able to read warning messages.

-- 68 of 85 --

69
4.2.1 Developer Portal Technical FAQs
4.2 Technical FAQs
# 	Question 	Answer
1
Where can I find more
information on the Compliance
and Enablement Toolbox SDK,
the Portal based validator and
the Integration Sandbox?
User manuals contains detailed information on SDK,
Portal-based validator and the Integration Sandbox.
These can be found in the dedicated pages on the
Developer Portal.
4.2.2 SDK Technical FAQs
# 	Question 	Answer
1 	What is an XML?
An XML is a way to present information in a structured
and machine readable format. The ZATCA e-invoice
format is based on XML and several other XML-based
standards.
2 What is Command Line
Interface (CLI)?
A CLI is a way to access and utilize a software application
using commands and it is text-based. CLI tools like the
fatoora tool can be used in scripts to create automations.
Sample: fatoora validatexml -f (invoicename.xml)
In this example, we are naming an application called
"fatoora", in which we want to use the validatexml feature
with a-f command.
The second part that we add is: (invoicename.xml) which is
the path and filename of the XML to be validated.

-- 69 of 85 --

70
3 	What is a Java and JAR?
Java is a programming language that runs on different
operating systems (OS), such as Windows and Linux. A JAR is
a package file format that is generally used to aggregate many
Java class files and associated metadata and resources (text,
images, etc.) into one file for distribution.
4 Can I validate the Arabic language
fields in a QR code within the CLI?
No, since the CLI does not support Arabic characters
display.
5 What JAVA version should I
install before using the SDK?
The prerequisite is using the Java SDK (JAR) versions
>=11 and <15.
6 What should the user do when
faced with a JAVA error?
When faced with a JAVA error, the user needs to install JAVA
(versions >=11 and <15) before running and using the SDK.

-- 70 of 85 --

71
4.2.3 Web Based Validator for Non-Technical Users Technical FAQs
# 	Question 	Answer
1 	What is a QR code?
A QR code is a coded representation of readable text. In the
context of e-invoicing, the QR code should contain specific
information in a specific format.
2
How can the users access
information contained in the QR
code?
In the context of e-invoicing, users should scan the QR
code on e-invoices, debit notes and credit notes by using
the ZATCA VAT app. This app is available on the Google
Playstore and iOS App Store free of charge.
3 What can I do if an XML has
error(s)?
If an XML has error(s), specific error message(s) will be
displayed. Error(s) are likely to occur in cases such as when a
mandatory field is missing or a value is in an incorrect format.
The user may require the assistance of a technical expert to
solve the error(s).

-- 71 of 85 --

72
4.2.4 Integration Sandbox Technical FAQs
# 	Question 	Answer
1 	What is the “Reporting API”?
The "Reporting API" reports a single simplified invoice,
credit note, or debit note. Specifically, it accepts a simplified
invoice, credit note, or debit note encoded in base64 and
validates it to ensure:
1. 	Compliance to the UBL2 XSD.
2. 	EN 16931 Rules subset.
3. 	KSA Specific Rules set. KSA Rules set will override EN
16931 Rules set in case the same rule exists in both sets.
4. 	QR Code validation
5. 	Cryptographic Stamp validation
2 How can the user access
"Reporting API"?
The user will need to do a POST Method on endpoint /
invoices/reporting/single and pass it on "authentication-
certificate" and accept-language as a parameter in the
header. More information can be found on the Integration
Sandbox section of the Developer Portal.
3
What's the Request Body the
user should send while calling
"Reporting API"?
The body object should Contain 2 Values: the first one is
called "invoiceHash" and the second one is called "invoice".
Example:
{
"invoiceHash": "string",
"invoice": "string"
}
More information can be found on the Integration Sandbox
section of the Developer Portal.

-- 72 of 85 --

73
4
What should the user expect
as a response if calling the
"Reporting API" was a success?
The response will be 200 HTTP Ok with a Retrieved
object 	containing 	4 	values 	: 	"invoiceHash","Status"
,"Warnings", "errors" .
Retrieved object Example:
{
"invoiceHash": "TODO Add Invoice Hash",
"status": "Reported",
"warnings": null,
"errors": null
}
More information can be found on the Integration
Sandbox section of the Developer Portal.
5 	What is the “Clearance API”?
The "Clearance API" clears a single standard invoice, credit
note, or debit note. Specifically, it accepts standard invoice,
credit note, or debit note encoded in base64 and validates it
to ensure:
1. 	Compliance to the UBL2 XSD.
2. 	EN 16931 Rules subset.
3. 	KSA Specific Rules set. KSA Rules set will override EN
16931 Rules set in case the same rule exists in both sets.
On successful validation, the api then applies a
cryptographic stamp from ZATCA side and generates a
QR Code string. After that the XML is returned back.
6 How can the user access
"Clearance API"?
The user will need to do a POST Method on
endpoint /invoices/clearance/single and pass it on
"authentication-certificate" and accept-language
as a parameter in the header. More information can
be found on the Integration Sandbox section of the
Developer Portal.

-- 73 of 85 --

74
7
What's the Request Body the
user should send while calling
"Clearance API"?
The body object should Contain 2 Values: the first one is
called "invoiceHash" and the second one is called "invoice".
Example:
{
"invoiceHash": "string",
"invoice": "string"
}
More information can be found on the Integration Sandbox
section of the Developer Portal.
8
What should the user expect as
a response if calling "Clearance
API" was a Success?
The response will be 200 HTTP Ok with a Retrieved
object 	containing 	4 	values 	: 	"invoiceHash","Status"
,"Warnings", "errors" .
Retrieved object Example:
{
"invoiceHash": "TODO Add Invoice Hash",
"status": "Reported",
"warnings": null,
"errors": null
}
More information can be found on the Integration
Sandbox section of the Developer Portal.
9
What are the Response causes
(Code & Description) that can
appear while calling "Reporting
single API"?
Code - Description
● 	200- HTTP OK
● 	202- Accepted with Errors, simplified invoice accepted
with warning errors
● 	303- HTTP See Other. Returned when the submitted
invoice is a Standard Invoice while clearance is activated
● 	400- HTTP Bad Request. Returned when the submitted
request is invalid
● 	500- HTTP Internal Server Error. Returned when the
service faces internal errors

-- 74 of 85 --

75
10
What are the Response causes
(Code & Description) that can
appear while calling "Clearance
single API"?
Code - Description
● 	200- HTTP OK
● 	202- Accepted with Errors, clearance invoice accepted
with warning errors
● 	303- HTTP See Other. Returned when the submitted
invoice is a Standard Invoice while clearance is
activated
● 	400- HTTP Bad Request. Returned when the submitted
request is invalid
● 	500- HTTP Internal Server Error. Returned when the
service faces internal errors
11 	What is a CSR ?
A certificate signing request (CSR) is one of the first steps
towards getting a Cryptographic Stamp Identifier for a device
/ solution unit. The CSR contains information (e.g. common
name, organization, country) the ZATCA Certificate Authority
(CA) will use to create your CSID. It also contains the public
key that will be included in your CSID and is signed with the
corresponding private key. Please refer to the CSID API
Swagger files for more details

-- 75 of 85 --

76
5.1 Glossary
5. Appendix
ZATCA 	ZAKAT, Tax and Customs Authority
XML 	Extensible Markup Language
SDK 	Software Development Kit
QR Code 	Quick Response Code
SDLC 	Software Development Life Cycle
CN 	Credit Note
DN 	Debit Note
CLI 	Command Line Interface
Integration Sandbox
The Integration Sandbox should
enable solution developers to
simulate the integration calls/
requests
CET 	Compliance and Enablement Toolbox

-- 76 of 85 --

77
ISB 	Integration Sandbox
EGS 	E-invoice Generation Solution
CRM 	Customer Relationship Management
PKI 	Public Key Infrastructure
JAR 	JAVA Archive
API 	Application Programming Interface
CSID 	Cryptographic Stamp Identifier
CSR 	Certificate Signing Request

-- 77 of 85 --

78
CSR Inputs 	Business Term 	Description 	Specification
Common
Name
Name or Asset
Tracking Number for
the Solution Unit
Provided by the Taxpayer for
each Solution unit: Unique
Name or Asset Tracking
Number of the Solution Unit
Free text
EGS Serial
Number
Manufacturer or
Solution Provider
Name, Model or
Version and Serial
Number
Automatically filled and not by the
taxpayer: Unique identification code
for the EGS.
Manufacturer serial number for
each solution unit including
1. 	Manufacturer or Solution
Provider Name | 2-Model or
Version | 3-SerialNumber
Free text
Validate the format
with a Regular
Expression (1-...| 2-...
| 3-....)
5.2 Developer Portal Security Information
The Developer Portal uses HTTPS, as a secure method of communication between the browser and the
server. The user account is protected by a username and password. The session stays alive for 8 hours
after which the user will need to sign in again.
5.3 Generate CSR
5.3.1 Initiate a CSR configuration file (Open SSL Config. File)
As a part of the first-time onboarding and renewal process, the Taxpayer's EGS Unit(s) must submit a
CSR to the E-invoicing Platform once an OTP is entered into the EGS unit. The CSR is an encoded text
that the EGS Unit(s) submits to the E-invoicing Platform and the ZATCA CA in order to receive a Com-
pliance CSID, which is a self-signed certificate issued by the E-invoicing Platform allowing clients to
continue the Onboarding process.The certificate signing request is encoded text that service providers/
own solution will submit it to ZATCA CA. The digital certificate will be stored in the taxpayer device/s
and EGS identification data will rely on the data provided by the taxpayer through ZATCA Portal without
further validation and therefore, the taxpayer is fully responsible for the accuracy and legitimacy of the
data provided. Also, CSR contains the public key that will be included in the certificate, the private key is
usually created at the same time that service providers/ own solution create the CSR by their selves.
The CSR inputs (Open SSL Config. File) are as follows:

-- 78 of 85 --

79
Organization
Identifier
VAT or Group
VAT Registration
Number
VAT Registration Number of the
Taxpayer (Taxpayer / Taxpayer
device to provide this to allow
to check if the OTP is correctly
associated with this TIN)
15 digits, starting and
ending with 3
Organization
Unit Name Organization Unit
The branch name for taxpayers.
In case of VAT Groups this field
should contain the 10-digit TIN
number of the individual group
member whose EGS Unit is
being onboarded
If 11th digit of
Organization Identifier
is not = 1 then Free
text
If 11th digit of
Organization Identifier
= 1 then needs to be a
10 digit number
Organization
Name Taxpayer Name 	Organization/Taxpayer Name 	Free text
Country Name 	Country Name 	Name of the country 	2 letter code
Invoice Type
(Functionality
Map)
Functionality Map
The 	document 	type 	that 	the
Taxpayer’s solution unit will be
issuing/generating. It can be one
or a combination of Standard Tax
Invoice (T), Simplified Tax Invoice
(S), Buyer QR code (C), Seller’s
QR code in self-billing (Z).
4-digit binary number
(0s and 1s only, cannot
all be 0s)

-- 79 of 85 --

80
Invoice Type
(Functionality
Map)
Functionality Map
The input should be using the
digits 0 & 1 and mapping those to
“TSCZ” where:
0 = False/Not supported
1= True/Supported
For example: 1000 would mean
Solution will be generating
Standard Invoices only. 0100
would mean Solution will be
generating Simplified invoices
only. and 1100 means Solution
will be generating both Standard
and Simplified invoices
4-digit 	binary
number (0s and 1s
only, cannot all be
0s)
Location Location of Branch
or EGS Unit
The address of the Branch or
location where the device or
solution unit is primarily situated
(could be website address for
e-commerce)
Free Text
Organization
Name Taxpayer Name 	Organization/Taxpayer Name 	Free text
Industry 	Industry or Location
Industry or sector for which the
device or solution will generate
invoices
Free Text
The screenshot below represents the information the user must use to generate a CSR (using Open SSL
Command Tool) and its configuration file as shown below. For further information, please see link: /
index.html (openssl.org)

-- 80 of 85 --

81
5.3.2 Generate public/private key pair
● 	According to security implementation document the Key pair shall be generated according to FIPS
186. Further, reasonable techniques shall be used to validate the suitability of the generated key
pair.
● 	The suitability of keys shall be done according to either the ECC Full Public Key Validation Routine or
the ECC Partial Public Key Validation Routine. [Source: Sections 5.6.2.3.2 and 5.6.2.3.3, respective-
ly, of NIST SP 56A: Revision 2].
● 	Keys must be marked as non-exportable in order to prohibit key export out of the security module
where the key was generated
● 	A hardware or software based security module can be used to generate and store the key pair as
long as the above requirements are met.

-- 81 of 85 --

82
5.3.2.1 Generate Private Key
The service providers/ own solution need to keep the private key secret. The created certificate will
only work with a particular private key that was generated. So if the private key lost, the certificate
will no longer work. we are generating a pair of ECDSA keys with the P-256 (secp256k1) curve, the
PrivateKey.pem file will be the generated private key, change the file name to YourPrivateKey.pem.
the following command show how to generate a private key using OpenSSL:
Sample contents of the PrivateKey.pem private key in PEM format:
5.3.2.2 Generate Public Key
The compressed public key will be created by extracting it from the private key, extracting ECDSA
keys with the P-256 (secp256k1) curve, the PublicKey.pem file will be the extracted public key,
change the file name to YourPublicKey.pem. The following command show how to extract a public
key using OpenSSL:
By using the compressed public key only X values will be used in the elliptic curves:

-- 82 of 85 --

83
The base64 public key will be use to validate the signature for the standard invoice:
Sample contents of the PublicKey.pem public key in PEM format:
5.3.3 Generate a Certificate Signing Request
The service providers / own solution need to run the following command in order to generate the
certificate signing request, the command include the request to generate the certificate with -sha256.
Sample contents of the CSR:

-- 83 of 85 --

84
5.3.4 Testing the certificate
The service providers/own solution can test the compliance of the generated CSR using the requests
that can be found in the below Postman collection:
The service providers/own solution needs to add the generated CSR in the body of the request:

-- 84 of 85 --

85
امـسـح هـــــذا الـكــود لالطّالع عـلــــى آخر تحديـث
لـهــذا المستنـد وكـافة المستنــــدات المـنـشـورة
أو تـفضل بزيـارة الموقع اإللكتروني zatca.gov.sa
scan this code to view the last
version and all published documents
or visit the website zatca.gov.sa
This guide has been prepared for educational and awareness purposes only,
its content may be modified at any time. It is not considered in any way binding
to ZATCA and is not considered in any way a legal consultation. It cannot be
relied upon as a legal reference in and of itself, It is always necessary to
refer to the applicable regulations in this regard. Every person subject to
zakat, tax and customs laws must check his duties and obligations, he is
solely responsible for compliance with these regulations. ZATCA shall not
be responsible in any way for any damage or loss The taxpayer is exposed
to that results from non-compliance with the applicable regulations.
External Document

-- 85 of 85 --

